## Introduction
Common-canvas is designed to display one link line on the canvas for each link defined in the pipeline flow. There are three types of link supported by common canvas: data links; association links; and comment links. Links can be enhanced by:

* Overriding the CSS styles applied to the elements of the link line
* By specifying decorations for the link

## Data Links
Data links are designed to model a flow from a source node to a target node. Data links are defined in the pipeline flow to connect a port on the source node to a port on the target node. The host application can choose whether or not to display ports on the nodes. Data links are typically displayed with an arrow head to display the flow along the link from source to target.

If a data link is retrieved from the canvas controller API it will have the following important fields:

* id - the unique identifier for the link.
* type - set to "nodeLink".
* srcNodeId - the ID of the node the link is connected from.
* srcNodePortId - the ID of the output port on the source node the link is connected from. Note: If this is undefined it indicates the node is connected to the first output port of the source node.
* trgNodeId - the ID of the node the link is connected to.
* trgNodePortId - the ID of the input port on the target node the link is connected to. Note: If this is undefined it indicates the node is connected to the first input port of the target node.
* decorations - an array of decorations specified for the link.
* app_data - any application specific data that was previously specified for the link in the pipeline flow or through the canvas controller API.

Note: Typically data links must be drawn between nodes however, if the config field `enableLinkSelectionType` is set to `Detachable`, the links are allowed to be drawn to and/or from arbitrary points on the canvas. If a link is drawn either semi-detached (from one node) or fully-detached (from both nodes) the following fields will be in the link object:

* srcPos - this is an object with two fields x_pos and y_pos. These provide the coordinates of the point on the canvas that the link is drawn from. If this exist then srcNodeId and srnNodePortId are not specified in the link object.
* trgPos - this is an object with two fields x_pos and y_pos. These provide the coordinates of the point on the canvas that the link is drawn to. If this exist then srcNodeId and srnNodePortId are not specified in the link object.

## Association Links

Association links are designed to capture a relationship between two nodes where there is no implied direction. By default these are displayed as a single straight link line in a dashed style. There are no arrow heads by default for that type of link. (Note : internally, association links do have a `srcNodeId` and `trgNodeId` but that is just to keep the field names consistent with the data links.) Association links do not reference ports.

If an association link is retrieved from the canvas controller API it will have the following important fields:

* id - the unique identifier for the link.
* type - set to "associationLink".
* srcNodeId - the ID of one of the nodes in the association.
* trgNodeId - the ID of the other node in the association.
* decorations - an array of decorations specified for the link.
* app_data - any application specific data that was previously specified for the link in the pipeline flow or through the canvas controller API.

## Comment Links
Comment links connect a comment to one or more nodes. They can be created by the user by: (a) pulling out the small handle/circle that appears below a comment and dropping it on a node. (2) by selecting nodes before the comment is selected and then creating the comment. This will automatically create a comment link from the selected nodes to the newly created comment.

If a comment link is retrieved from the canvas controller API it will have the following important fields:

* id - the unique identifier for the link
* type - set to "commentLink"
* srcNodeId - the ID of comment.
* trgNodeId - the ID of the node the comment is connected to.
* app_data - any application specific data that was previously specified for the link in the pipeline flow or through the canvas controller API.


## Display of links
Links are drawn on the canvas using SVG elements in the DOM. Each link has a top level group `<g>` element and inside it some SVG paths. The first displayed path is the selection area. This is invisible but provides a selection/hover area for mouse interactions on the link. The second is a path to represent the link itself which is drawn over the top of the selection area path:

| Purpose      | DOM tag                             | Classes      | Notes                            |
| :---------- | :----------------------------------- | :---------- | :----------------------------------- |
|Group	| g |	d3-link-group |	Classes specified for the link in the class_name field of the link object will be added here. |
|⮕ Selection area|	path |	d3-link-selection-area	| |
|⮕ Link line	| path |	d3-link-line |	 |
|⮕ Arrow head	| path |	d3-link-line-arrow-head |	Only when enableLinkType is set to "Straight" |
|⮕ Decorations	| g |	d3-link-decorations-group |	Will contain decoration elements, for example, image, path etc |

Note: The main link group will also have one of these classes: d3-node-link (for data links), d3-object-link (for association links) or d3-comment-link (for comment links).
