# Canvas Customization

The canvas background of the flow editor can be customized by the application in the following ways.

### Snap to grid

Nodes and comments displayed by Common Canvas can be made to ["snap-to-grid"](http://127.0.0.1:8000/01.01-flow-editor/#snap-to-grid-positioning). The snap behavior can be either during the drag operation or after the drag operation has ended.  The snap to grid behavior can be set in the [enableSnapToGridType](http://127.0.0.1:8000/03.02.01-canvas-config/#enablesnaptogridtype) config property.

```
    const config = {
        enableSnapToGridType: "During"
    };
    ...
    ...
    return (<CommonCanvas config={config} />);
```

`enableSnapToGridType` can be set to "None", "During" or "After".

In addition to `enableSnapToGridType`, the application can set the size of the grid increments in the X and Y direction by specifying the `enableSnapToGridX` and `enableSnapToGridY` properties of the config. They can be expressed as:

* a number which will be a distance within the canvas coordinate system or
* a percentage (for example "25%") which will be the percentage of the default width or height of the node.

### Display Grid

Common Canvas can display four types of [background grid](01.01-flow-editor.md/#grid-background-patterns) underneath the nodes, links and comments.

The type and dimensions of the grid can be specified using the `enableCanvasLayout` object which is a property of the canvas config.

```
    const config = {
        enableCanvasLayout: {
            displayGridType: "Dots"
        }
    };
    ...
    ...
    return (<CommonCanvas config={config} />);
```

`displayGridType` can be set to "None", "Dots", "Boxes", "DotsAndLines" or "BoxesAndLines"

In addition to `displayGridType`, the application can set the size of the displayed grid of dots or boxes using:

* displayGridMinorX
* displayGridMinorY

If the grid type is set to either "DotsAandLines" or BoxesAndLines" the following properties can be used to set the size of the line grid:

* displayGridMajorX
* displayGridMajorY

These display grid properties can be expressed as:

* a number which will be a distance within the canvas coordinate system or
* a percentage (for example "25%") which will be the percentage of the default width or height of the node.

By default, the displayed grid will take its dimensions from the snap-to-grid dimensions.

