# Properties Config

The Properties Config is an object passed as an optional prop to the `<CommonProperties<` React object containing the following fields:

* containerType `string`: type of container to display the properties, can be "Modal", "Tearsheet", or "Custom".  default: `"Custom"`

* rightFlyout `boolean`: If set to true, groups will be displayed as an accordion. If false, groups are displayed as tabs. default: `false`

* applyOnBlur `boolean`: calls applyPropertyChanges when focus leave Common Properties.  default: `false`

* disableSaveOnRequiredErrors `boolean`: Disable the properties editor "save" button if there are required errors

* enableResize `boolean`: adds a button that allows the right-side fly-out editor to expand/collapse between small and medium sizes. default: `true`

* conditionReturnValueHandling `string`: used to determine how hidden or disabled control values are returned in applyPropertyChanges callback.  Current options are "value" or "null".  default: `"value"`

* buttonLabels `object`:
    - primary `string`: Label to use for the primary button of the properties dialog
    - secondary `string`: Label to use for the secondary button of the properties dialog

* heading `boolean`: show heading and heading icon in right-side fly-out panels. default: `false`

* showHeadingDesc `boolean`: When set to true, it will display a tooltip containing a description and a button that redirects to the provided URL in `help`. The default value is false.

* schemaValidation `boolean`: If set to true, schema validation will be enabled when a parameter definition has been set in CommonProperties. Any errors found will be reported on the browser dev console. It is recommended you run with schema validation switched on while in development mode.

* applyPropertiesWithoutEdit `boolean`: When true, will always call `applyPropertyChanges` even if no changes were made.  default: `false`

* maxLengthForMultiLineControls `number` - maximum characters allowed for multi-line string controls like textarea. default: 1024

* maxLengthForSingleLineControls `number` - maximum characters allowed for single-line string controls like textfield. default: 128

* convertValueDataTypes `boolean` - Default false. If set to true, currentParameter values whose data type does not match what is defined in the parameter definitions will be converted to the specified data type.

* trimSpaces `boolean` - Default true. If set to false, condition ops(`isEmpty`, `isNotEmpty`) and `required` fields are allowed to only contain spaces without triggering condition errors.

* showRequiredIndicator `boolean` - Default true to show `(required)` indicator. If set to false, show `(optional)` indicator next to properties label.

* showAlertsTab `boolean` - Default true to show "Alerts" tab whenever there are error or warning messages. If set to false, Alerts tab won't be displayed.

* returnValueFiltering `array` - Default []. When set this will filter out any values in the array in the parameters returned when `applyPropertyChanges` is call.  Only primitive data types are currently supported.

* categoryView `string` - View categories in right-flyout. Can be `"accordions"` or `"tabs"`. default: `"accordions"`.

* enableTanstackTable `boolean`: Feature flag to enable using Tanstack tables instead of React-virtualized tables. default: `false`
