# Context Menu Wrapper


## __This function is deprectated and will be removed in  future release__

Carbon 11 has a context menu component if your applications needs a context menu.

The context menu in common-canvas can be used in your application by importing the `ContextMenuWrapper` React component. Aside from providing a standard context menu to allow users to select different actions, this context menu also allows for configuration of submenus as a menu item, as well as a visual dividers.

# Getting started with Context Menu
## Step 1: Import Context Menu Wrapper
To use Context Menu Wrapper in your React application you need to import the `ContextMenuWrapper` React component from the common-canvas library. It's recommended to use All Components if common-canvas is also being imported, otherwise use ContextMenuWrapper only option.

**All Components**
```js
    import {ContextMenuWrapper} from "@elyra/canvas";
```

**ContextMenuWrapper only**
```js
    import ContextMenuWrapper from "@elyra/canvas/dist/lib/context-menu";
```

## Step 2: Pass in the correct props
* **contextMenuDef** `array` (required): an array of menu item objects consisting of action and label. You can also pass in a divider item.

```js
    const menuDef = [
        { action: ACTION.BUILD, label: "Build" },
	{ action: ACTION.EXTEND, label: "Extend" },
	{ action: ACTION.CLEAR, label: "Clear" },
	{ divider: true },
	{ action: ACTION.SCORE, label: "Score" },
    ];

```

* **containingDivId** `string` (required): the id of the element that the context menu will be absolutely positioned inside. typically, the page element is used.
* **contextMenuPos** `object` (required): the position of the context menu within the containing div.
```js
    const menuPos = { x: 500  , y: 300  };
```

* **contextMenuActionHandler** `func` (required): this handler is where context menu actions are defined.
```js
    contextMenuActionHandler(action) {
        switch (action) {
            case "BUILD":
		    break;
	    case "EXTEND":
		    break;
	    default:
		}
	}
```
* **closeContextMenu** `func`  (required): this handler will be called when the context menu is closed.
* **stopPropagation** `bool` (optional): this is optional and only for very specific, uncommon use cases. When this flag is set, if a user clicks outside the context menu, the event will not bubble to parent elements, preventing parent event handlers from being called.

## Example
```js
    const contextMenuWrapper = (
        <ContextMenuWrapper
	        contextMenuDef={menuDef}
            containingDivId="main-page"
            contextMenuPos={menuPos}
	        contextMenuActionHandler={this.contextMenuActionHandler}
            closeContextMenu={this.props.closeContextMenu}
	    />
    );
```
