### Notification Message structure.

Notification messages are displayed in the notification panel which the user can access by clicking the Notifications icon in the toolbar. Each notification message is described by a simple JavaScript object like this:
```js
 {
    id: <string>,
    type: <string>,
    title: <string or JSX object>,
    content: <string or JSX object>,
    timestamp: <string>,
    callback: <function>,
    closeMessage: <string or JSX object>
}
```
where:
 * **id** (string, required): this is a unique ID assigned to the notification message. This is passed as a parameter in the callback (see below) and is used to reference messages when deleting them through the `CanvasController` API.

* **type** (string, required): this must be one of four values: "info", "success", "warning", or "error". If `type` is null, empty string, or undefined, the message type will be "unspecified".

* **title** (string or JSX object): the title of the notification message

* **content** (string or JSX object): the body of the notification message

* **callback** (function): an optional callback function that will be called when the notification message is clicked. Callback function is called with one parameter, `id`

* **timestamp** (string or JSX object): an optional timestamp that will be rendered in a separate section with different formatting, if passed in

* **closeMessage** (string or React object): an optional message that, if passed in, will display as clickable. Clicking on this will delete this individual message. If none is passed in, no delete option will be shown.


