# Command Stack API

  The CommandStack is a JavaScript class that provides the functionality to support do/undo/redo of commands.  It maintains an internal stack of commands with a cursor that moves up and down when commands are undone or redone. Commands are also Javascript classes that implement a simple interface.

The CommandStack API allows application code to programmatically add commands to the command stack.  You can get the Command Stack by calling the `CanvasController.getCommandStack()` method. The CommandStack API provides the following methods:

```js
   do(command) - push the command onto the command stack and then invoke command.do()
   undo() - pop a command from the command stack and then invoke command.undo()
   redo() - push last undo command onto the command stack and then invoke command.redo()
   canUndo() - returns true if there is a command on the command stack.
   canRedo() - returns true if there is an undo command that can be redo.
   clearCommandStack() 
   getUndoCommand() - returns the next command to be undone or null.
   getRedoCommand() - returns the next command to be redone or null.
```

Each commands that is added to the command stack is a Javascript class that need to implement these methods:

```js
   constructor()
   do()
   undo()
   redo()
``` 
constructor() - Initial setup
do() - Performs all actions necessary to execute the command
undo() - Performs all actions necessary to reverse the actions performed in do()
redo() - Performs all actions necessary to re-execute the command. For some commands this is the same as do() but others it is different. 


  Here is some sample code that shows how a create-node command might be written:

```js
  export default class CreateNodeAction extends Action {
	constructor(data) {
	   super(data);
	   this.newNode = createNode(data);
	}

	do() {
	   ObjectModel.addNode(this.newNode);
	}

	undo() {
	   ObjectModel.removeNode(this.newNode.id);
	}

	redo() {
	   ObjectModel.addNode(this.newNode);
	}
  }
```

   Here is an example of using the CommandStack API to create a command action and push it on the stack:

```js
   const command = new CreateNodeAction(data);
   CommandStack.do(command);
```

   When using CommonCanvas, the canvas-controller creates an instance of the command stack. CommonCanvas provides command objects for each of the commands that are performed by the user, such as: create node, delete comment, link nodes together, etc. Common canvas also provides undo/redo options in its default context menu, on the toolbar and via keystrokes ctrl+z (undo) and ctrl+shift+z (redo). You can implement your own undo and redo UI if required using the API.



