## Overriding Styles and Color Themes

### CSS styling for quick start

If you just want to get up and running and don't care about scss then import these regular css files:
  - carbon-components/css/carbon-components.min.css
  - @elyra/canvas/dist/styles/common-canvas.min.css
    - version 8.x and older @elyra/canvas/dist/common-canvas.min.css

More information about carbon components can be found here http://www.carbondesignsystem.com/getting-started/developers


### SCSS styling (recommended)

If you want to use the full power of scss styling with variable overrides etc then include these imports in your main scss file:
```sass
@import "carbon-components/scss/globals/scss/styles";
@import "@elyra/canvas/src/index.scss";
```
  - use `autoprefixer` when building
  - if using webpack under the `sass-loader` and make sure to include
```js
options: { includePaths: ["node_modules"] }
```
Again, you can refer to the test harness [index.scss file](https://github.com/elyra-ai/canvas/blob/master/canvas_modules/harness/src/styles/index.scss) for sample code.


### Loading Fonts
You may find that there is a pause in common canvas behavior, such as when the context menu is first displayed, which is caused by fonts being loaded. This can be fixed by adding the following to the `.scss` file for your application:
```
$font-path: "/fonts";
@import "carbon-components/scss/globals/scss/styles";
```
The fonts will need to be imported from carbon before carbon styles and placed in a public `/fonts` directory.
You can see an example of this in the common-canvas test harness (which is the equivalent of a host application) in this repo. That is, the [index.scss file](https://github.com/elyra-ai/canvas/blob/master/canvas_modules/harness/src/styles/index.scss) contains the lines above and the grunt build files ensures the fonts are copied from`node_modules/carbon-components/src/globals/` to the `<carbon fonts folder>` directory.


### 3rd party styling

If you are using the expression builder in common-properties then also include these libraries:
  - codemirror/addon/hint/show-hint.css  
  - codemirror/lib/codemirror.css

If you are using common-properties then also include the react-virtualized styles:
  - react-virtualized/styles.css

## Elyra Canvas styling guidelines
- Used the `data-id` attribute on inputs to be used for automated tests.  Format for common properties should be `properties-`
- **className** format format for common-properties should be `properties-`
- Limit the use of html(DOM) ids
- Minimum inline styling.  This allows for consumers to easily override styling.  
- scss/sass styling should be added to the component's folder
- No `important!` in styling
- Use variables for all colors(preferably from carbon)
